challenge there let's go now to Dr James
Smith he's an emergency medicine doctor
he worked in gaza's hospitals during the
war and he now joins us from London good
to have you with us I'm sure you're
following what's happening at the nassa
hospital how worrying is it to you as
somebody who's worked in Gaza hospitals
that a hospital can be shelled it can be
stormed the medical staff treating
patients rounded up because a Waring
party claims it suspects bodies of of
captives might be at this
hospital I mean this is another
catastrophic uh example of another
egregious attack on on a on a healthc
care facility in in Gaza in the last 3
four months alone um more than 400
attacks on healthc care across Gaza um
almost the same number again in occupied
West Bank um what's happening now in in
in in NASA hospital is symbolic of or or
representative rather of uh a complete
neglect of the most basic rules that
conduct uh that that that guide conduct
in times of armed conflict um as you've
mentioned and as we've heard we're
hearing stories of patients that have
been killed in their hospital beds uh
artillery fired directly into the
hospital patients that have been killed
because the electricity has been cut
from the hospital um others who've been
forced to flee uh but then fearing for
their safety having to pass through um
Israeli uh military um um screening have
returned to the hospital uh it's really
yet another example of the most
catastrophic neglect of the Palestinian
people all right there was a a statement
and see if we can bring it up uh came
out of Medan s
Frontier uh in which they were talking
about let's see if we got the script
all right so what they were talking
about is that the NASA Hospital in Khan
Yunis in Gaza was shelled in the early
hours of this morning despite Israeli
forces having told medical staff and
patients that basically they should go
back and and stay in the in the hospital
um are we reaching new lows it's it's
hard to understand how something like
that can
happen uh I should be really clear here
I mean I think those new lows have
already been reached over the course of
the last couple of months we have
reached those new lows and we have
stayed there and what we're seeing now
is a global either neglect uh or
inability to do anything about uh what
the Israeli military is is doing in Gaza
currently um these latest examples from
NASA Hospital are Beyond tragic um they
fill you with sadness and and and rage
um but they are um yet another example
of of exactly the kind of things that
we've seen in alifa some months ago and
in several other healthc care facilities
across the Gaza
Strip is there some
obligation upon the world powers now to
intervene basically are we seeing a
failure that's on a much higher level
than just the Waring
party absolutely uh there certainly are
very very clear obligations they existed
um prior to the international court of
justice uh ruling but they are certainly
made even clearer now on the back of the
icj ruling uh the icj has imposed
provisional measures um saying that
there are uh uh very plausible concerns
that Israel is committing genocide
against the Palestinian people there is
no uh allegation more grave uh than than
than that of genocide
um that places immediate moral political
and legal um obligations upon all um
world powers particularly those who up
until this moment have continued to
finance and to provide political and
diplomatic support to the Israeli State
and by this we mean of course uh
foremost among those States uh the
United States uh the UK and several
other influential European and North
American uh government
all right good to have you with us thank
you very much for your perspective